[Music]
so when you look at the seas and oceans
on the map you might think that they
just flow into each other it seems like
there's only one big ocean and people
just gave different names to its parts
well you'll be amazed how vivid the
borders between them are the border
between the Pacific and Atlantic oceans
is like a line between two worlds it's
as if the two oceans meet at an
invisible wall which does not let them
flow into each other and mix their
waters why on earth does it happen we
know for sure there is no invisible wall
inside and water is water what could
interfere with its mixing the thing is
that water can be different to the
Atlantic and Pacific oceans have
different density and chemical makeup
the level of salinity and other
qualities one can see by their color
that they are far from being the same
the borders between the two bodies of
water with different physical and
biological characteristics are known as
ocean Cline's hello Klein's
borders between waters with different
salinity are the most spectacular and
this is what we see when the Atlantic
and Pacific Oceans meet the famous
explorer Jacques Cousteau found this
when he was deep diving in the Straits
of Gibraltar the layers of water with
different salinity looked like they were
divided with a transparent film and each
layer had its own flora and fauna
helic lines appear when the water in one
ocean or sea is at least five times
saltier than in the other you can create
a halocline at home if you pour some
seawater or colored salty water in a
glass and then add some fresh water on
top of it the only difference is that
your Halleck line will be horizontal and
ocean Halleck lines are vertical if you
remember a couple of basic things from
physics you might argue that a denser
liquid should finally end up lower and
less dense higher if that were true the
border between the two oceans would look
not like a vertical line but as a
horizontal one and the difference
between their salinity would become less
obvious the closer they got to each
other so why doesn't it happen here well
first the difference in density of water
of the two oceans is not that great for
one of them to get down and the other to
rise up and yet it's enough to not let
them mix still another reason is inertia
one of the inertial forces known as the
Coriolis force influences objects when
they are moving in the system of axes
which in its turn is moving too in
simpler words the earth is moving and
all the moving objects on it will be
acted upon by Coriolis force deviating
from their course as a result the
objects on the Earth's surface
don't move straight on but deviating
clockwise order in the Northern
Hemisphere and counterclockwise in the
southern but the earth is moving slowly
it takes a planet a whole day to make a
full circle around its axis that's why
the Coriolis effect gets obvious only in
long time intervals with cyclones and
ocean flows and this is why the
direction of flows in the Atlantic and
Pacific Oceans is different it also
doesn't let them mix another important
difference between the two oceans water
is the strength of molecules connection
or surface tensile strength
thanks to this strength molecules of a
matter hold on to each other the two
oceans have a totally different surface
tensile strength and it also doesn't let
them mix maybe they could gradually
start mixing with time but as the flows
in them have opposite directions they
just don't have time to do this we think
that it's just water in both oceans but
it's separate molecules meet for just a
short moment and then get carried away
with the ocean flow don't you think
though that only the Atlantic and
Pacific Oceans don't get on well with
each other there are a lot of places on
the planet where water in the two seas
or rivers doesn't mix there are also
thermocline borders between water of
different temperatures like the warm
water of the Gulf Stream
much colder North Atlantic Ocean CEM oak
limes are the most amazing ones these
are borders between Weider's having
different microclimate and chemical
makeup the Sargasso Sea is the biggest
and most widely known chemical I'm it is
a sea with in the Atlantic Ocean which
has no Shores but you've got no chance
not to notice it let's have a look at
some other spectacular Klein's on the
planet one the north and Baltic seas
these two seas meet near the Danish city
of Skagen the water in them does not mix
because of different density sometimes
you can see the waves of the two seas
clash into each other making fault and
yet their water mixes gradually that's
why the Baltic Sea is slightly sailing
if there had been no water coming to it
from the North Sea it would have been a
huge freshwater lake to the
Mediterranean Sea and the Atlantic Ocean
they meet at the Strait of Gibraltar and
have a different density and salinity so
their water does not mix 2/3 the
Caribbean Sea and the Atlantic Ocean the
place where they meet is near the
Antilles and looks like someone has
painted water with different shades of
blue another place where these two meet
is the Eleuthera island of the Bahamas
the caribbean sea water is turquoise and
the atlantic ocean water is dark blue
number for the suriname river and the
atlantic ocean meet near Paramaribo in
south america v the aura great river and
it's efflux these two made in mazzani's
province in Argentina one of them is
clean to be used in agriculture and the
other gets almost red because of loam
during rainy seasons 6 the Rio Negro and
so amoA stripper's part of the Amazon
River six miles from menos in Brazil Rio
Negro and solimes rivers run into each
other
but don't mix for about two and a half
miles the rio negro is dark and
solemnize light they have a different
temperature and speed of flow 7 Moselle
and rye
they meet at Koblenz Germany Rhine has
lighter water and Mozelle darker eight
ills Danube and in the junction of these
three rivers is in Passau Germany ills
is a small mountain river to the left
the Danube is in the middle and in is
the light River to the right in is wider
than the Danube here but still is it's a
flux 9 Alec Nanda and Bhagirathi rivers
meet in India alig Nanda is dart and
bigger aathi is like 10 ish and Alba
flow into each other in Kazakhstan near
the city whose name you'll never be able
to pronounce nor will I you give it a
shot
the err Tish has clean water and Alba
cloudy number 11 the jail Ling and
Yangtze rivers meet in Chiang win China
the jailing is clean and the Yangtze is
brown 12 Kurdish and all these two
rivers flow into each other in arms
Grusha the earth hush is cloudy and the
arm pure and transparent 13 julia and
cotton rivers meet in the Altai Republic
Russia the water of the Chuya has an
unusual cloudy white color here and
looks dense and thick Katoon is clean
and turquoise flowing into each other
they form a single two colored flow that
does not mix for some time 14 the green
and Colorado river's the police of their
Junction is Canyonlands National Park in
Utah USA Colorado is brown and green is
yep green the colors of these rivers go
through rocks with different chemical
makeup as why they have such a big
contrast of colors 15 the Rhone and arvy
rivers they flow into each other in
Geneva Switzerland the Rhone is a pure
river that flows out of the lake of
Geneva the Arve is cloudy as it gets its
water from the glaciers of the shaman
eval so water you think about all this
water of course it's a bad joke like a
lot of my bad pronunciations of those
river names
hey if you learn something new today
then give the video a like and share
with a friend and here are some other
cool videos I think you'll enjoy just
click to the left or right and remember
stay on the bright side of life